i listened to the album twice
he must have passed yesterday
troubles at 52
no troubles

almost got hit by a grey truck,
just thinking about it
this make me sad in a weird way
like a bad come down

i spilled port on a book
i spilled port on my backpack
they played him on bbc6, misnoming one of his song
everything that i cooked that evening tasted bad

i broke in my new boots
got blisters on all sides
my brother bought five grands
of a stock that i picked

the day before, the day he passed, i had had a beer,
carried my cigarettes in the purple mountains tape case
from my house to the pub

it is the next morning now
i read his own gift to himself at 28 last night
fell asleep with the back door opened
dirty mouth
fully dressed
light on
my computer affixed to the menthol mountains

going in for work, in the bus
i don't know, it must have been the light or the wind
my eyes welled up again, jellied

There isn't much to say, but let this thread on a small private forum be the door where some of us leave wreaths & spill gin on.

I remembered last night after a few glasses of wine that he kept a blog called mentholmountains. On and off. I can't remember when I came across it and why. There was a now-deleted post a while ago where he asked if anyone had a quiet place available for a few months of writing. West Coast or Pacific NW. A coarse budget was outlined. He didn't say much more, but I kept thinking since that's when he started writing again, for Purple Mountains. He had included his email in that post.

I can't remember what I wrote but I wasn't doing so good myself. I didn't have a cabin out there, I just sent a shot across from a dark state. Something probably all about me. I got a reply right away, but it was only an automatic response. Automatic, yet crafted in his particular way: a mix of wit and diligence. Well, maybe he doesn't check that mailbox often. Well, maybe someday he would.

Reading the blog posts again last night was hard, lugubrious. He had posted about Thomas Berhard on the Friday before last. A few months back, he had posted a few Johnny Paycheck songs. There was a poem from Attila József, a 20th century Hungarian poet. The most touching post was from May. He listed all of the David Bermans that attained some sort of fame or status. For instance, the doctor who re-attached John Bobitt's penis was called David Berman as well. That made me smile, the idea of him discovering these other Davids while on an internet black-hole binge, a cigarette burning somewhere in the room. His kind of opaque, gritty, humor. And in this short epitaph to his own name, his touch still read through, ever so subtle whenever he wrote: the terse, for a lack of affinity, introductions of the scientific, worker and scholar; the slightly more verbose attributions & plugs for the artists; the invisible cracks of an editorial for the sordid; his own self-effacement in this melding stream of David Bermans, going towards the infinite in both direction all at once. Then, he goes:

"Far be it from me to stand in the way of another David Berman."

Caustic, hopeful, somber, funny. What a perfect send off.

Rest in peace.


epilogue.

on the fourth day i left the doors to my room open. they give on the yard. it was very windy, and when i got back into the room, a red balloon had been carried in. it's a paw-tastic party.
